01 - WAVE MODERATION DOCUMENT - SPRING 2024
Last Updated: 02/04/2024
This is the official moderation document for Wave. You are not allowed to leak this to anyone outside of people inside of Wave’s moderation team.
Leaking this document to people outside of Wave’s moderation team will get you a demotion, or a possible kick from staff.
02 - Staff Rules & User Rules
The following is the staff rules for Wave’s staff team, and the explanation to user-followed rules.
02.1 Staff Rules
Rule 1. Remain professional at all times: you can still joke around but remain professional at all times                     even while talking to other staff members.
Rule 2. Make clear you are using sarcasm: if you made a joke like “nah ur banned”, “demoted”, “mods                      mute this guy”; make sure to make it clear that it is sarcasm. We don’t want people to say stuff like             “Staff abuse”.
Rule 3. Do not abuse your staff permissions: This is a subsection of multiple rules, you may read them                     below.
Rule 3.1. Abusing commands: follow section 04’s rules at all times while moderating, you will be warned if                you give someone way too high or way too less of a mute time. Continuous acts of breaking staff                rules will cause you to get a demotion.
Rule 3.2. Do not abuse your staff permissions: just because you got pissed because members started                        trolling you does not mean you can just start using commands like ?warn or ?mute on them                        without a reason, make sure to put a valid reason before muting and collect enough evidence.
Rule 4. No unallowed content: You are not exempt from the guidelines. Sending NSFW, content about                     controversial topics, racism, etc. Keep in mind, you are still not allowed to say the N-word or other             similar words or slangs. We have demoted people in the past for these contents and we will do it             again if necessary.
Rule 5. Use English only: while on-duty / moderating the server you should always try to use English.
Rule 6. Do not discuss moderation actions inside of public channels: you are not allowed to discuss a staff             member's demotion, a members ban, mute, warn, etc inside of public channels. We have                     channels such as staff chat or moderator chat for discussing these.
Rule 7. Keep your profile appropriate: you must keep your profile SFW and not have any degrading or unallowed contents (Rule 4 for more info). If you are caught having the N-word, homophobia, NSFW links, etc inside of your about me or pronouns section; you will be asked to remove them.
02.1 User Rules & Explanation
Rule 1. Follow Discord Guidelines and Terms of Service at all times: pretty self explanatory, the user must             follow Discord’s Terms of Service and Guidelines at all times. This includes but is not limited to:                     Being under 13 (saying they are under 13, etc), doing active scams / phishing users.
Rule 2. Use English at all times: this one is also pretty self explanatory, the user must use English at all                     times. There are a few languages exempted from this however: Brazilian, French and Turkish.
Rule 3. Advertising is prohibited: also another one which is self explanatory, any forms of advertisement                     other than a few (Wave, Codex & Arceus) is not allowed will lead to punishments.
 (See: Sector 04 R04.11 [04.11] for more information.)
Rule 4. NSFW is not allowed: Any forms of NSFW is not allowed inside of the server, this includes                     half-naked characters (only bra & panties / only bikinis). This also falls under porn & any LGBTQ+             porn (Gay porn, Lesbian porn, etc)
Rule 5. Keep a positive energy: this rule is most likely the most bendable rule of them all. What we mean             by “keep a positive energy” is that members should not start any arguments both to other users                     and staff, be respectful to everyone and do not create toxicity within the server.
Rule 6. Do not discuss moderation actions in public: Members should not talk about another member                     getting punished, this can be “L {MOD} UNBAN HIM!!” or “W {MOD} YOU DID A GOOD JOB”.
Rule 7. Do not spam, spoil or troll in any forms: members should not spam or flood in any way, this                     prevents cluttering chat. If a member sends a message every second or sends multiple within                     a few seconds you should punish them accordingly to Sector 04 R04.21 [04.21]. Members should             also not send any walls of text or the same repeating text over and over again, punish them                     accordingly to Sector 04 R04.22 [04.22].
Rule 8. N-word and Gore is not allowed: This is also pretty self explanatory, members should not be racist             towards anyone with the excessive use of the N-word, they should also not send any type of gore             into the server, even if it’s small like their nose bleeding.
Rule 9. Keep your profile appropriate: Members should not have these following inside of their names:                     @everyone, @here, special characters, names of developers / staff members, inappropriate                     names (Racism, homophobia, etc). They should also not have a NSFW pfp or banner.
03 - Rank Hierarchy
The following is the rank hierarchy for Wave, this should be followed at all times even if you are not moderating.
We’ll get to what “high-command” / “medium-command” / “low-command” means and what they do in this section.
03.11 - High Command
“High-command” refers to any role higher than Administrator role, these are: “Community Manager”, “Server Manager”, “Developer” roles.
Developer:
Developers actively work on Wave and try to make it better by updating it and fixing features. They make the quality of using Wave better. You should always listen to a developer.
Server Manager:
Server Managers work on the server and fix anything they have seen that is not correct, this may be a role's permissions or a channel.
Community Manager:
Community Managers actively moderates the community, they watch staff members to see if they are not doing their job properly and warn them. You should always listen to a community manager too.
03.12 - Medium Command
“Medium-command” refers to any role higher than support role, these are: “Moderators” & “Administrators”
Administrator:
Administrators are the higher level of moderators, they moderate the server and report any bugs they see. They can also send messages in Announcements.
Moderator:
Moderators are what they are known for, moderating, however they also check tickets. They have access to way more permissions than Support.
03.13 - Low Command
“Low-command” refers to any role that is higher than user-based roles. These are: “Trial Support”, “Support”.
Support:
Supports check tickets and fix any bugs, crashes or errors users might have.
Trial Support:
Trial supports are supports with less permissions as they are still in testing, high-command or medium-command test them on their knowledge and based on that they get promoted to support.
04 - Moderation Actions
Here are the actions you must do when a user breaks a rule.
04.1 Advertisement and Self-promotion
There are four types of advertisement:
Small servers, most likely the user wants to promote their own community. (0 to 1000 members)
Big servers, most likely sent by people from their owners to promote. (1000 to 5000 members)
Huge servers, either bots or the same as big servers (5000 - 10000)
Botted Advertisement, 100% bots sent by other servers to promote. High chance NSFW scam server. (NaN - NaN)
Punishment for Small Servers:
1st Offense: Warning using the ?warn command.
2nd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 1 hour mute.
3rd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 1 day mute.
4th Offense: Ban.
Punishment for Big Servers:
1st Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 30 minutes mute.
2nd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 12 hours mute.
3rd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 3 days mute.
4th Offense: Ban.
Punishment for Huge Servers:
1st Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 12 hours mute.
2nd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 3 days mute.
3rd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 1 week mute
4th Offense: Ban.
Punishment for Botted Advertisement:
1st Offense: Ban.
04.2 Phishing
There are three three types of phishing / scamming:
Blatant Phishing, just puts a link and tells people to click on it for (X).
Sneaky Phishing, hides the link using discords [display link][actual link] feature and promises something in return.
App Phishing, uses an app or software to bait the user, most likely (X) early access, etc.
Every single type:
1st Offense: Ban.
04.3 NSFW & Gore
There are four types of NSFW & Gore:
Fictional NSFW, lewd images of fictional characters
Actual NSFW, lewd images of actual human beings (Pornography)
Fictional Gore, gore of fictional characters such as organs spilling out or realistic blood.
Actual Gore, genuine gore such as someone’s beheading (RARE)
Punishment for Fictional NSFW:
1st Offense: Warning using the ?warn command, image deletion & 1 day mute.
2nd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command, image deletion & 3 day mute.
3rd Offense: Ban.
Punishment for Actual NSFW:
1st Offense: Warning using the ?warn command, image deletion & 1 day mute.
2nd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command, image deletion & 1 week mute.
3rd Offense: Ban.
Punishment for Fictional Gore:
1st Offense: Warning using the ?warn command, image deletion & 1 day mute.
2nd Offense: Ban.
Punishment for Actual Gore:
1st Offense: Ban.
04.4 Spam & Flooding
Punishment for Spam:
1st Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 30 minute mute.
2nd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 2 hours mute.
3rd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 1 day mute.
4th Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 1 week mute.
5th Offense: Temporary Ban (1 day)
6th Offense: Temporary Ban (1 week)
7th Offense: Permanent Ban
Punishment for Flooding:
1st Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 6 hours mute.
2nd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 12 hours mute.
3rd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 1 day mute.
4th Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 3 days mute.
5th Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 1 week mute.
6th Offense: Temporary Ban (1 week)
7th Offense: Permanent Ban
04.5 Racism
There are 3 types of Racism:
N-word, self explanatory (IMAGES THAT CONTAIN THE N-WORD IS FINE, BUT IF THE WHOLE IMAGE IS JUST N-WORD THEN IT IS NOT.)
Homophobia: self explanatory
General Racism, generally said something that might be offensive to a person or race.
Punishment for N-word (BYPASS INCLUDED):
1st Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 1 day mute.
2nd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 3 day mute.
3rd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 3 day mute
4th Offense: Ban.
Punishment for Homophobia:
1st Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 12 hour mute.
2nd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 1 day mute.
3rd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 3 day mute
4th Offense: Continuous use of Warning (OFFENSE X) & 3 day mutes.
(If someone keeps doing this without stopping, message a high-command.)
Punishment for General Racism:
1st Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 6 hour mute.
2nd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 1 day mute.
3rd Offense: Warning using the ?warn command & 3 day mute
4th Offense: Continuous use of Warning (OFFENSE X) & 3 day mutes.
(If someone keeps doing this without stopping, message a high-command.)
THIS IS STILL  NOT COMPLETED, I WILL CONTINUE ADDING INTO THIS.
